Git 
[Command line tool, doesn’t have any ui or anything. It is in local system]
It installed locally 
Open source licenced, primarily a cmd line tool. Maintained by linux
Focused on version control

Github
[Webbased
Service , it has some ui. It is opensource and paid also]
Hosted in client
Owned by Microsoft 
Free usage for public
This gives hosting service to git. It is a service


How to run in cmd line
New repository

Cmd prompt in this folder
Install github to work from cmd prompt
Got to website
http://git-scm.com/downloads
open cmd prompt and check whether its installed or not
git –version
go to ur desktop and create a floder and open it.
git init[initialize git in that folder]—initialized empty git repository in that folder(initialize the git hub in that folder)
.git folder is created, which is a hidden folder.
Dir>one.txtcreate one file in that folder
To check the status cmd git status…
That means one file is there but that file is not there in repository. We have to add it tot repository…untracked files
Git add one.txt(Git add .)
See status again
Git status(showing in green color)
Now it is there in repository , we need to commit
Git commit –m “first commit”
We have to give some msg , just like git
It says , pls tell me who are u…
Git config --global user.name “amulyag24”
Git config - -global user.email amulyag24@gmail.com
Now to commit again
Git commit – m “first commit”
Then see the status
Git status---(no commits yet)
Push to git repository from local repository
Copy uri of new repository
Git remote add origin <rep uri>[this is where I am telling where to push]
Now push the code
Git push -u origin master(we are pushing to master branch)
It shows how much data it is added
We will go to our repository and refersh it 
See the status… nothing to commint , working tree clean
Open the file and edit and now check
Git staus it is showing modified
If multiple files are there………….two.html
Check statusone file is there which is not added.. one file is not updated
Git add .      adddng all the files
Git stausaddeded but not committed
Git commit –m “second commit”
Now push  git push –u origin master

If anyone change and delete…I need to pull it 
Git pull –p origin master
Git status
Now if I see the status , file has deleted
Git log(it is to see the history)

To add username and password
Git config –global user.name “”
Git config –global user.email “ “
Git config – global – unset user.name
There are three files. One file added line, second file deleted one line, third file ->file only deleted
Git status
Git add.
Git commit –m “ “
Git push –u origin master
